{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1561\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red135\green135\blue135;\red255\green255\blue255;\red19\green19\blue19;
\red239\green239\blue239;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c60000\c60000\c60000;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c9804\c9804\c9804;
\cssrgb\c94902\c94902\c94902;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl192\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs19\fsmilli9600 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 DENSITY DESIGN FINAL SYNTHESIS STUDIO\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl336\partightenfactor0

\b\fs33\fsmilli16800 \cf4 \strokec4 Design process\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs32 \cf4 The project was developed during the 2016/2017 edition of DensityDesign final synthesis studio, with the aim of learning to observe and represent controversial phenomena from different perspectives, and to visually communicate them to different publics.\
The topic of radicalization was chosen among the \'93Societal challenges\'94 identified by the European Union as the most urgent. Throughout the project and research we narrowed down this macro-topic until we identified the specific controversy of violent religious radicalization in relation to the extremist organization of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS).\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl192\partightenfactor0

\fs19\fsmilli9600 \cf2 \strokec2 PHASE 1\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl336\partightenfactor0

\b\fs33\fsmilli16800 \cf4 \strokec4 Exploring official data\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs32 \cf4 The course was structured in three main phases, each one with the objective of facing the different problems related to information visualization, although through distinctive and different outputs. The data visualization on the journey of foreign fighters was the final output of the first phase of the course, in which we were asked to choose, use and communicate official data sources. The design process was greatly supported by the course material and bibliography, as well as direct revisions of the work with the professors. Special attention was given to the design of the visual model of the representation to illustrate our academic learnings of the theory and history of data visualization.\
In addition to the visualization, as a team we also designed a complementary website that expands the insights of this research with country-specific contextual information, such as economic, religious and social data. The project is published on DensityDesign:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://labs.densitydesign.org/ddxii/es01/group08/index.html"}}{\fldrslt \cb5 Travel the Distance}}.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl192\partightenfactor0

\fs19\fsmilli9600 \cf2 \strokec2 PHASE 2\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl336\partightenfactor0

\b\fs33\fsmilli16800 \cf4 \strokec4 Diving into the web\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs32 \cf4 The second phase was dedicated to the study on data from unstructured digital sources. We were provided with a broad range of different tools to harvest, manipulate and analyze data, and earned a deep understanding on how to directly collect and reuse data. The output of this phase is a significant research website in which we studied the communication strategies of the Islamic State and its resonance in both the media and the public. The main challenge that we faced in this phase was to define the protocols to collect our raw material, sometimes even by building our own codes and tools. The research website is published on DensityDesign:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://labs.densitydesign.org/ddxii/es02/group08/index.html"}}{\fldrslt \cb5 IS a brand}}.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl192\partightenfactor0

\fs19\fsmilli9600 \cf2 \strokec2 PHASE 3\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl336\partightenfactor0

\b\fs33\fsmilli16800 \cf4 \strokec4 Visualization for advocacy\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs32 \cf4 The last phase, the third, was the most experimental. The focus was on the public communication of the topic using the data collected in the previous phase, creating an installation that allows the guests to physically \'93enter\'94 the dataset. The way we designed the installation, creates engagement within the visitor at first sight and provides a shocking revelation at the entrance, which becomes the narrative key for the unfolding storytelling through which the results of our research are delivered. The installation includes data-posters, data-video and data-audio pieces as well as physical data-sculptures to be touched and explored by hand. To see the project that we deisgned and built for this phase, please visit the mini-site:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://giorgiotto.github.io/joinus-exhibition/"}}{\fldrslt \cb5 JOIN US}}.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.densitydesign.org/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb5 DensityDesign Research Lab website}}\
}